The client for this project was The Gaming Room, who had previously created Draw It or Lose It as an Android only application. They wanted to redesign it as a cross platform distributed system. The client emphasized the need for scalability, portability to Windows/macOS/Linux/mobile devices, and secure consistent shared game data. They also required globally unique IDs for games, teams players, as well as a centralized service to store all data. I feel that my best work was done in system decomposition using object oriented design. I successfully utilized OOD principles such as inheritance, encapsulation, and the Singleton pattern to create organization to the design, and clearly described how each object will interact with others. I feel I gave the client good platform analysis as to what their options were.

Writing the design document allowed me to think about how I wanted to design the system before writing any code. This allowed me to avoid some pitfalls and know what kind of design decisions I would need to make. If I had to redo one aspect of my work, I would choose to add onto the system architecture. I would provide diagrams that depict the client-server connections and where the data flows. I tried to keep the user’s needs in mind throughout the design document by providing scalability, portability, and consistent data through distribution and centralization. Keeping the user in mind is important to software design because you are creating a software to solve their problem and they will be using it. My design process for software consisted of taking a large problem and splitting it into smaller more solvable pieces with object oriented design. In the future I will try to implement more of the same process while adding more diagrams and getting feedback while writing the document.
